*Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.*
Arthur C. Clarke


Powerful undead wizards within the lore of Dungeons and Dragons are known as a lich. They are creatures who have overcome the limits of their own mortality through magical and technological means. The process of turning oneself into a lich requires the creation of a powerful artifact known as a phylactery, in which the soon to be Lich stores their distilled essence. This process often takes the majority of their natural life to achieve, as both the knowledge and financial cost to construct such a device is extensive. Upon the creation of this vessel, the lich enters a state of immortal undeath - free to pursue their research and inevitably lose whatever humanity they once had. 

What the lore here is describing is in a sense a form of ultimate archive, even a form of digitization. Through sets of coded instructions, would it be possible to transcend into a form of digital undeath? The source code of any algorithm could be considered at its core a form of magic, a set of instructions for digital incantation. The very nature of coding languages include hints to this magic, from hexspeak to “heavy wizardry”. I would argue that an artist’s practice is not so dissimilar from a complex algorithm. I offer this text as a primer for my practice. As a means of creating my own algorithm or phylactery, with the hopes that others might follow. How this might be accomplished is subjective to each individual, as are the reasons for doing so. However as any true wizard or research creator might attest, time is fleeting, and data is precarious. Only by archiving, summarizing and sharing might the research continue. 
