Covid-19 has left me with what is most known as “brain fog”. At first, this seemed like a great way for me to justify the many lists and notes I create throughout any given day. I keep a small book entitled “studio notes” to keep track of tasks that I need to complete on that particular day. I realize now that maybe this brain fog was with me all the time. As a child I was diagnosed with ADHD. As a “cure” I was given medication that in simple terms would addict my brain to a certain chemical. The hope was that when I went off this medication my brain would produce what would be considered normal for most people. Prior to this “treatment” I remember being a much different person, I would be prone to emotional breakdowns and extreme mood swings almost every single day. As a result of this medication I cannot remember much of the finer details of my childhood. Time began to feel more linear, I became less concentrated on the days before and more obsessed with the days ahead. My emotions became dulled, things became less of a big deal. I was always curious about the inner workings of the world, but after this point I became much more analytical. 

My grandfather recently passed away due to complications with dementia, a disease which slowly erased his memory. I noticed that throughout this period my family tried their best not to acknowledge what was happening. Typical of the Dalmer family: choosing to suffer in silence rather than dealing with a problem. The phrase “Oh, nevermind” was uttered by my grandmother at least a dozen times a night during family dinners. A volunteer erasure of the present to look to the future. My mother actively chooses to forget the nastier things she's done. Often denying and forgetting my own experience to suit her own narrative. I look to my family with conflicted feelings of their unwavering support, while also acknowledging their selective memory. 

I cope in a similar way. In the past I’ve turned to alcohol and substances to dull my stresses rather than actively dealing with them. Like most who often drink to excess I would frequently enter a blackout state, where the conversation and motor control part of the brain continue to function. Who I am as a person is gone, erased, while my close friends are left to struggle with some of the bonehead decisions I’ve made during these times. From things I've said, to things I’ve done. The thought of turning to family or others for support would send me into such existential dread that I chose to suffer in silence like most in my family for years before I made a change. 

I’ve always considered the act of creating something as a means of understanding it. Learning by doing - whether learning to code as a means of understanding how images are created, or by simply taking apart old VCRs in order to see the mechanical systems required to make a magnetic tape display a video signal. An art practice isn’t born from nothing, my work is an extension of all of this. A way for me to work through it. Dementia can be genetic, and so there’s a strong possibility that one day I might face it. I explore methods of archiving and automating my practice in order to deal with the erasure I face within my life. Guarding against the day when I will no longer remember the motivations that initially made me excited about creating new work in the first place. 
